our other topic of the day is that of
iteration so we saw before that Java
lets us iterate through lists using a
nice little shorthand here that
sometimes known as an enhanced for loop
or a for each loop so if I have a list
of friends in this case the friends are
integers then if I enter eighth iterate
through them using four index friends
then we get the output 5 23 42 so what
I'm going to do here is we're going to
strip away the magic that makes this
possible so that our classes like for
example array DAC or linked list deck or
whatever else you build can also support
this nice syntax so an alternate uglier
way to iterate through a list is to use
what's known as the iterator method what
I can do is instead of saying for int x
equals friends I can say iterator of
integers seer I'm calling it the seer
equals friends done iterator what that
does as it returns an object that is
able to return the entries of friends
one by one the API the interface for
that iterator interface yes the
interface or that interface it has two
methods hasnext and next where it will
iterate through each of the items house
all show in an animation a moment so in
other words this code right here is
exactly identical to this code on the
right they have no difference it's just
that this is shorthand for the code on
the right so how does this code actually
run well here are the friends this is
the friends list and when we iterate
through it the seer variable initially
is looking when we say iterator see your
equals friends iterator it's looking at
this first entry of list so we go and we
say while Sierra dot has next is that
true is there something left yes so in
that case we will print out C or dot
next and see our next does two things
one is it returns the next value and two
it advances itself whatever that means
so we go forward and we print out five
can we printed out five and we move
forward so this line does two things it
moves the pointer forward whatever that
means inside right because we don't know
what the implementation of this guy is
we're just the people in the cave
looking at the wizard move on the wall
we don't actually know about his
internal state or how he works
okay
sothanks what we do is we come up here
and we say isn't there something else
yes so then we return and move and we
say is there something left yes then we
return and move we say forty-two and
then we say is there something left and
we say false so that's the basic idea of
how iterators are going to work in Java
as well we'll do in the next couple of
videos is see how we can add this same
capability to our own classes